as Gamers we're running machines with
four eight maybe 16 cores if we're lucky
so when AMD launched their first 96 core
epic CPU I figured well we're done here
that ought to be enough chip for even
the most dedicated Potato Head but the
Spud Masters at AMD said no and last
year launched a
128 cor CPU surely that must be enough
right no it wasn't and thanks to Super
Micro who sponsored this video I have
the brand new AMD epic 9965 a CPU with
not 96 not 128 but
192 cores making it alongside its Turin
family members the fastest CPU on the
planet by a wide margin we're talking
384 threads terabytes of ddr5 ECC memory
128 Gen 5 PCI lanes and a 500 wat TDP I
can only think of one word what holy sh
[Music]
I never thought I'd find myself saying
only 500 watts of power consumption on a
CPU but when you consider that AMD
packed 192 cores into the same space
they used for half as many just two
years ago you got to agree it's pretty
impressive I mean sure that's more than
my entire first gaming PC but but
compared to the king epic at that time
this new chip has double the core count
and the same maximum boost clock for
real world performance that utterly
obliterates it so how did they do it
well for starters just like amd's latest
ryzen 9000 desktop processors this
monster is powered by Zen 5 which comes
with a bunch of architectural
improvements like NextGen Branch
prediction which allows these chips to
predict their next move two steps in
advance rather than one not to mention
with greater accuracy and lower latency
all while increasing cash bandwidth
implementing a wider execution path and
adding a full 512-bit data path for AVX
512 workloads if all that sounds like
gobbley that's fine it boils down to a
claimed 16% average IPC uplift from zen4
to Zen 5 in PC workloads and potentially
even more for high performance compute
and the Enterprise workloads that
typically run on servers let's get it
installed but wait while 500 W seems
downright reasonable for 192 cores it
does mean you can't just plop them into
any old chassis and expect it to work
you need a compatible bios sufficient
Cooling and sufficient power so keep
that in mind but it isn't going to be a
problem for us today since super micro
can build practically anything including
this as 2126 HSN hypers server that they
provided for this video This Magnificent
machine can handle not one but two of
these monsters which is 1,000 watts of
just CPU that's 384 cores 768 threads
now typically if you were to buy one
from Super Micro it's going to come
preassembled but we went out of our way
to take the CPU out so I can put it back
in and show you how these new Chips use
the same socket as last generation so if
you have one you in theory could use it
but you are going to want something that
can handle more power not every
motherboard is going to be rid to handle
a 500 W CPU right out of the box you
should check your motherboard manual
this one purpose buil for this platform
so we should have no problems at all M
PTM 7950 LTT store.com it's a thermal
pad and actually perfect for this
application because it's super durable
these things can handle like hundreds or
thousands of heat Cycles while barely
even losing any of their original
performance which is awesome on a CPU
this big it's important to make sure
everything is tightened down properly so
that the CPU actually makes contact with
all of those thousands of pins because
unlike most desktop CPUs these days the
CPU is actually held in by the force of
the cooler not by like a little bracket
on top I mean there is a bracket but
that mostly just kind of holds it in
place while you're tightening everything
down order 1 2 3 4 5 6 fully tightened
one at a time yeah not a little bit at a
time not a little bit at a time which is
the conventional wisdom you know no I
tried to do that on one of the CPUs and
it it actually didn't post look how
scary that is gorgeous now while we
could have spec this machine with up to
9 terabytes of 6,000 megat transfer per
second registered ECC memory across its
24 dim slots that would have cost um
probably as much as my car I think maybe
more than both of my cars so I think the
1 and 1 12 terabytes that super micro
sent over is going to be plenty for us
this is 6400 I heard that AMD is doing
like special models with certain
providers that support 6400 that's
incredible I guess this is one of them
that's a big Improvement hold on that
means standard server memory is faster
than standard desktop memory what hasn't
changed from last gen is pcie expansion
we still get 128 or 160 Gen 5 Lanes in
single and dual socket configs
respectively and this particular chassis
can be speced for either eight eight
Lane expansion slots or four 16 Lane
expansion slots if we have dual width
cards they also crammed another 16 Lanes
into an ocp 3.0 mezan slot here all of
which well most of which we aren't using
for now but you definitely could while
our hypers server is fairly well-rounded
a solid setup for virtualization which
we'll show you later or Cloud workloads
where you need a lot of cores and not a
ton else aside from memory this chassis
is also perfect for high performance
computer cute and even AI I mean you've
already got the maximum amount of CPU so
with the rear slot stuffed with
high-speed networking gpus accelerator
cards maybe even all three at the same
time there's not a lot that a machine
like this can't do don't wait today is
the last day of our Black Friday and
cyber monday deals at LT store grab some
of the best deals of the year on
screwdrivers magnetic cable management
and more at lg. gblack Friday we're
going to have it linked down below what
we will be installing now is a few of
these 15 TB kokia nvme ssds in the eight
slots that each support pcie gen 5x4
funny thing about this chassis by the
way if you're building out high
performance storage for AI or I don't
know something else that needs fast
storage maybe with software like WKA it
can be configured with up to 24 2 and 1
12 in Drive Bays thanks to the modular
design of the front so you could install
an eight drive back plane like this one
in each section with a bunch of 30 TB
CM7 and you could have over 700 terab of
Gen 5 storage in a single 2ou machine
that's a theoretical read performance of
240 gbt per second across those drives
in a single chassis or more than 330 GB
per second if you went with 15s you know
we get excited by fast ssds in our
gaming systems but when you stack them
up together in a stupid fat server like
this it's kind of mind-blowing speaking
of blowing if you're speacking 500 w
CPUs like we've got or gpus for AI or
rendering you uh might actually
appreciate the modularity of this
chassis and the fact that it doesn't
necessarily have all those Drive bays in
there because these are some flipping
wild counter rotating fans but they're
still going to pull air better if they
don't have a whole bunch of restriction
in front of them so the bottom line is
whatever your needs are super micro's
hypers systems and the entire rest of
the lineup are designed with flexibility
and modularity in mind you ready to put
the top on did you look at the power
supplies yet 2,000 Watts 80 plus
titanium two of them naturally what are
the odds this boot's first
time but those giant sockets even if you
do it properly like I don't know this
thing same 85% 90 you did it properly
yeah but I wasn't here when you put in
the other one
so waa she's going to go she's going to
go these things take forever to post the
first time that actually makes sense
think how long your desktop ryzen takes
to do memory training the first time
well is it up F yeah oh look oh that's
great and you doubted well I didn't
doubt much I said 85 90% all right can I
reboot it uh-oh oh boy I think it's set
to Max yeah I think so we should just
leave it like that right yeah maybe not
optimal speed that sounds more
manageable oh thank God oh my God that's
oh oh that's downright Pleasant wow now
that we know it boots we should probably
put a GPU in there right and what better
GPU to go with the oops Top Dog AMD epic
Enterprise CPU then a top dog not
Enterprise but still awesome Radeon RX
7900 XTX now despite this chassis being
well equipped for gpus I mean the power
connectors are like right there so they
just plug right in and they've got a
2600 wat power supply option that you
can upgrade to these slots are meant for
full height fulllength workstation and
Enterprise gpus not weird shaped gaming
gpus so our plan is to put our GPU
outside the server with a riser and a
jumpered ATX power
supply nice Flawless oh my God it
Scrolls how much stuff can I do and
still maintain 0% utilization could I
launch a browser oh I'm sure you can
play a YouTube video it's only 1% oh no
it's it's at zero again once it settles
in and it's doing its thing it's nothing
it going to load One Core it's 384 cores
it could load two cores and still be
below 1% duplicate this tab uh well hold
on hold on first I want to I want to try
different I want to try different
resolutions cuz we're not even at 1080p
yet remember this is this is happening
on the
GPU CPU Works a little harder it works a
little harder CPU is at 10% so I think
most of the this is GPU 4K here we go
there's like some cores there's one core
I see at
9% the rest of them are vibing thriving
one might even say okay the GPU is at
77% according to task manager how is
that even possible I think it's just cuz
it's video decode okay let's disable
Hardware acceleration I think this is
going to hurt a little bit no 2% yeah
it's going to hurt it's going to hurt so
much our memory is 0% too it actually
just says 0.0 but I guess to get to 0.1
we're talking 100 gigs I need like a
script to to open these over and over
again I want to see how maybe we should
just revisit that video on this machine
how many Chrome tabs we get some more
RAM we revisit how many Chrome tabs but
we like automate it this time but let's
move on let's move on for now uh cin
bench do you have R23 so we can see all
the little things uh I do but it wasn't
launching oh wow it just does nothing no
I know doesn't even try to I looked in
task manager and you see it for a sec
and then it goes away I think it just
doesn't know what to do with this many
threats and 2024 is going to be a
supreme disappointment what it's thread
limited to 256 for some reason I don't
actually know why that's it you didn't
even say what the score is if that score
was my child I wouldn't even speak to it
oh what a flipping disappointment get
out of my sight you could try blender
ready CPU rendering let's go I feel like
this is going to take longer just to
prepare the job than to actually render
it that's a lot of blue it's a blue
screen of
success damn 12 seconds she doesn't get
much clock speed though does she yeah
this is also running with smt on like
we're kind of at the point where you
have so many cores that I feel like a
lot of applications are better off
without multi- threading or some might
be anyways these CPUs between the two of
them have over twice as much cash as my
first gaming PC had system memory like
the first one I bought for myself yeah
okay cash yeah and these don't even have
that much cash no seven zip can't
perform that great there's no way it'll
go across this many threads CPU
threads oh what limited again let's go
compare this to Intel's new desktop
chips real quick so 7 700 giips
which is 700,000 nips so it's like 3 and
half 9950 X's oh no no no wait wait wait
that's B that's kilobytes per second
yeah oh I see yeah so we're double the
performance but
like okay well now we should play a game
on it right sure I mean we have to this
is like the worst possible CPU to play
video games oh yeah we're at 4K High
settings oh man that was cheesy that was
cheesy not going to lie okay clearly
this is not a gaming
CPU I mean it's working for me what can
I say no you could probably run if you
had enough gpus like 60 instances of
Counter Strike at this point dude no
though should we do it it's been so long
how many years has it been since we've
done many gamers one CPU this time we
could actually do one CPU with 192 cores
dude that would be crazy yeah we should
do it I want to do it here did you know
alt f4 makes the game run faster did you
know that alt f4 doesn't do jack in this
particular no I'm winning I'm winning
I'm going to win I'm going to win Jake
Jake I'm going to win okay what's next
Doom maternal is a good one cuz Doom
maternal is actually like fairly multi
threaded supposedly here we go horde
mode 4K everything Ultra nightmare
motion blur off raate tracing off looks
pretty good it's 200 FPS uh
yeah wow it actually does use some cores
ehy yeah but like I I mean relatively
speaking no
but that's crazy though it's actually
using like 16 cors I feel like but we're
running at 200 FPS that means we could
run multiple instances of Doom maternal
on this thing wasn't the CPU usage at 1%
yeah when I say multiple I mean a big
multiple all right this actually feels
great yeah yeah click things he's almost
dead kill him glory kill use more fuel
buddy oh my God you're going to die J oh
no oh no oh no leave me alone he called
you an arrogant fool quick Glory kill I
did it yeah again yeah let's go yeah
this is great it's running lovely okay
let's do something not stupid on it pass
mark would be a good one cuz it'll show
us like comparison to CPUs that are
relevant I bet you in a lot of cases the
numbers that we get running across both
CPUs will be the same as running across
one or maybe even worse and that's just
software limitations but you would never
configure a system like this for a
single workstation that's running one t
a single workload yeah or at least if
you threaded it across all of them you
would have them be well aware of the
fact that there's two CPUs and the
performance degradation you get when you
try to cross them yeah and we we're
literally off the chart yeah like a lot
so nobody else has submitted the CPU yet
so let's run memory Mark and then we can
submit it sure and then we can see what
it's like compared to other CP all right
one of the tests is
just how much memory you have I think
we're going to do okay on that one yeah
maybe okay oh
63rd mid AF the read and the right are
going to be strong because we just have
12 memory channels running at 6,400
megat transfers per second click on
memory
threaded oh wait what is that so that's
megabytes a second that's how far I have
to zoom in to find the highend available
Ram let's go yeah we're definitely
winning on that one let's go I think
maybe disc Mark we have to do too these
kyok ssds are nuts could we be a little
bit limited by our low thread speed
though oh 100% dude do you remember how
many drives we used to have to put
together to see numbers like this yeah
the crazy thing is like our storage
server probably does 20 gigaby a second
this is one drive all those drives but
this is one drive let's have a look at
our compare
here so this is last gen this is the one
we just tested that's a lot of
generation overgeneration uplift yeah
multi-threaded basically 30% on the Dot
from what I've read like other
applications can be
45% or more well that's what a huge
increase in clock speed and core count
is going to do for you Zen 5 might have
been a bit of a wet fart on the desktop
but on the Enterprise side it is
anything but this is the result did last
night which is finally posted okay
189,000 and this is the master list of
all dual CPU submissions which naturally
a lot of AMD in there dude we were so
close to the top of the chart we're very
close it's so close kind of infuriating
actually okay what is this though that's
the 64 core frequency optimized one
that's only 64 cores per C okay but up
to 5 GHz the first last gen epic setup
is all the way down in fourth place
flipping 35,000 points behind us and
those are the 3dv cash ones which are
very expensive so that's our last gen
competition right so we're 60,000 points
above that absolutely huge generational
uplift 30% as cool as it is to see this
mini course to pack this many in AMD had
to design a smaller denser version of
their Zen 5 Core called Zen 5c
presumably standing for compact because
they actually squished the same
functional units into a smaller space so
unlike efficiency cores you might see in
other CPUs they use the same
architecture and actually a more
advanced process node compared to the
full-size cores which pays off in a big
way in power efficiency but these
compact cores do have drawbacks AMD
actually has a handy little visual to
make this easier to understand smaller
size
but the squishiness costs you in cash
and it limits your maximum clock speed
so for our many gamers project we're
actually more interested in checking out
the Epic
9755 sure it's got 64 fewer course but
they're the bigger faster cashier ones
which is pretty important when you're
running that many instances of cod or
whatever although with that said Jake
the 9575 F sure only 64 cores but if we
had two of them running at that kind of
frequency
um it may be pretty interesting
depending on how many gpus we can get
working anyway all of this conversation
leads us to a really important point
with the diverse use cases that you see
in the data center space there's no
longer a one-size fits all chip or even
core design that can be the master of
every workload anyway let's change gears
and fire up some more appropriate
workloads in Linux we're in Ubuntu the
latest one 2410 so very new kernel this
is one of those tests that I have a lot
of context for that's actually not that
good of a score dang it 60 seconds but
here watch this let's set it to only run
on our first CPU so we need to just copy
that's the cores those are the extra
threads copy those and Linux is so easy
to do this uh the only tricky thing is
we have to tell y cruncher to be smart
about it too you can see it's only on
num Noe zero yep only using memory on
num Noe zero which is important
and only using 384 threads which is 1
CPU 47 seconds what were we at 60 before
so we picked up like 13 seconds by
turning off one of our entire CPU
sockets even sillier let's do just the
cores no threads okay
damn 42.3 seconds so what we're trying
to say is more not necessarily better
especially on an application like this
which is super memory bound you do not
want to be Crossing CPUs unless you
absolutely have to okay this is last gen
yeah bergo so we go from 60 seconds
actually see they tried it with
multi-threading and without so we went
from 60 seconds which was our 2p time
down to 42 let's do something practical
well it might not be practical it is
like a relevant use case this is proxmox
the hypervisor and we're going to make
some virtual machines well that seems
very practical yeah just not in the way
that I'm going to do it we have all
these cores right well I guess we're
going to need a few VMS you see what
that's doing oh you're just copy pting
your VMS I'm a little worried it's going
to get upset but I'm how many are you
doing like few that's not actually that
silly I mean massive parallelization of
light compute workloads that that's
actually right in this thing wheelhouse
yeah but it's like Windows 11 desktop
and and I'm talking like
192 okay yeah no normally it would be
like AWS instances or something like
like little Linux instances yeah yeah
I'm talking like running web services
full desktop window okay that's really
stupid but will it work we have 384
cores that gives us two cores of em
that's not bad it's not great I put the
one image on a raid zero of two of those
kyok ssds and they're linked images so
if you look at the actual storage usage
it should be literally exactly the same
as one that's pretty cool usually when
you bulk start vmss and proxmox it does
them one at a time but that takes too
long so I made a script to just do them
all at once how's our CPU usage oh yeah
it's 15 15% look at the RAM usage climb
oh my goodness I think I gave each of
them eight gigs or like seven and a half
gigs
oh you're running a YouTube video so we
made a little script that when the
windows instance starts it opens a
random YouTube video on a list of like
250 that I popped in there and we run
almost 200 100 instances of Windows and
play back almost 200 videos with
software decoding that is flipping Wild
open up task manager on one of
these let's see if it's actually
struggling cuz it might very well not be
sure they're not clocked that high
compared to some of the other chips but
there's N5 for crying out loud like once
it's running oh once it's running it's
not doing that much so I've only given
it two real cores allowed them to use
two real cores and then it has four in
here so it's chilling out remember it's
still like booting up it's like indexing
windows it's it's probably checking for
Windows updates if these all start
Windows updates oh my
God okay so that's that's not bad no way
dude I think it worked are they all on
no
way this cuz 192 instances of Linux I
don't know if it would be that impress I
mean this will be impressive but this is
like Windows 11 home Edition it's not
stripped down at all I didn't disable
anything I literally installed Windows
booted it up set the script to load it's
not optimized in any way shape or form
how's our usage that's not bad dude half
of our CPU yeah and of course the io
delay 0% shout out kokia when you raid
zero2 ssds that can do 15 gab a second
each pretty fast bottom line then it's
pretty clear that this new lineup of
Epic chips is going to pretty much
dominate everything else on the market
like I've kind of lost track of the last
time any of their competitors had a
Fighting Chance in the data center and I
think AMD knows it while core for core
pricing hasn't changed much in the last
couple of
generations let me say that another way
core for core pricing hasn't changed
much so this 192 core chip will set you
back nearly
$155,000 at MSRP that means that this
one computer on its own has $30,000
worth of CPUs for the right customer
where ongoing expenses like data center
rack space Cooling and power are the
bigger concerns this could be a very
compelling value so Props to AMD props
to Super Micro who sponsored this video
you can check out their hyper servers
and the rest of their h14 epic 905
server lineup by checking out the
showcases that we did on the super micro
Channel which we're going to have Linked
In the video description they have some
wild stuff like their new flex twins
which stuff eight up to 192 C CPUs in a
2u like this size guys that's
1,532 cores or a casual 37 dish,
thousand in a 48 U mindblowing stuff if
you guys enjoyed this video why not
check out the one we made about our
super micro Grand twin and some sick AI
video processing Tech that was super
cool and I'm kind of wondering are we
ever going to deploy that yes nice